we have seen SQL database is best for banking. But is it fissible for storing social media Data??
=>  suppose we have stored username,photoUrl, likes,share,comment of 10crore user. now if i hvae 100 photos then 100 entries will be stored in database. suppose total entries is 1000crore .now we have brought a new feature,now user can dislike a photo nowe we have to store it and make a new column of dislike now we have to mark 0 in 1000 crore entries in dislike column which is a pain point. Now the question is shall you think in SSD all these stored in row by row or contiguoous then the answer is no it doesn't take continuous memory as it is not possible because the size of each row is not fixed as someone username is of 10character and other have 20character .. so it doesn't take continuous memory location.now if we add dislike then for some rows there is not enough space remaining there in SSD so now we have to change the location of those rows(first we have to find where space is enmpty then copy this previous data and then ad dislike to it). Now think this things we ahve to done for 1000 crore user which is a very pain point.


lets learn Normalisation in DBMS?
Now suppose we have name,amazonid,lastname,address,itemorder,cost,orderid. Now a user whose name is shivam first ordered protein of RS.4000 , then ordered cretine of RS2000,then Butter of rs300, then namekeen of rs 2000. AS we have to store each entries and in all the entries we can see name,amazonid,last name,address is same. so here data is repaeting and we can say data is reduntant. This is increasing my storage now can we do some optiomization so that we can't write this repeated data each time. so Here Normalisation takes place. Now Divide this table in 2 table first table has name,amazoniud,lastname,address and other has itemorder,cost,orderid.Now we write name,amazon id ,lastname,address only one time for a user then simply store all the entries in 2nd table for each order. Now suppose we have another user whose username is mohan,amazon id 113 , last name singh, and address pune . so first we have to store this data in 1st table as this is another user and then for every order that mohan do we will store all the entries in 2nd table. now the question is how do we know know that shivam has orderes protein,keratin... and mohan ordered butter or anything else..?? now we have to connect these 2 tables so that we can know shivam orderes protein and keratin and mohan is something else...  so we have to create a extra field in 2nd table here we can amazon id is unique so we create a field of amazonid in 2nd table now for every order we will store the amazon id. By this we will easily know which user has ordered what . this amazon id is known as primary key in 1st table and in 2nd table it is known as foreign key. now here also we can say amaznionid is repeating but itna sahana padta hain


